.TH AUDIOPLAYER-CUEMS 1 "November 2025" "cuems-audioplayer" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
audioplayer-cuems \- MTC synchronized audio player
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B audioplayer-cuems
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIFILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBaudioplayer-cuems\fR is an audio player that synchronizes playback with
MTC (MIDI Time Code) timecode. It is part of the cuems project for
professional audio/video synchronization in live performance environments.
.PP
The player supports various audio formats (WAV, AIFF, MP3, FLAC, etc.)
and can extract audio from video files. It uses JACK for low-latency
audio output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB--file\fR \fIFILE\fR
Specify the audio file to play. Can also be specified as a positional argument.
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--port\fR \fIPORT\fR
OSC port number (default: 7000).
.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB--offset\fR \fIOFFSET\fR
Initial offset in milliseconds.
.TP
\fB-w\fR, \fB--wait\fR \fITIME\fR
Wait time in milliseconds after playback ends before exiting.
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--uuid\fR \fIUUID\fR
Player UUID for identification.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--device\fR \fIDEVICE\fR
Audio device name.
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--mtcfollow\fR
Enable MTC following mode.
.TP
\fB-r\fR, \fB--resample-quality\fR \fIQUALITY\fR
Resampling quality: \fBvhq\fR (very high), \fBhq\fR (high, default), \fBmq\fR (medium), \fBlq\fR (low).
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--ciml\fR
Continue if MTC is lost (don't stop on MTC signal loss).
.TP
\fB--show\fR \fIOPTION\fR
Show information: \fBc\fR (copyright), \fBw\fR (warranty), \fBh\fR (help).
.SH REQUIREMENTS
JACK audio server must be running, or PipeWire with JACK compatibility layer.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jackd (1),
.BR pw-jack (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Alex Ramos and Ion Reguera for Stage Lab Coop.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 Stage Lab Coop.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.
